LSB Steganography
This is a Python script for a GUI application that performs Least Significant Bit (LSB) steganography. It uses the Tkinter library for the GUI and the PIL library for image manipulation.

Prerequisites
Before you begin, ensure you have met the following requirements:

You have installed Python 3.6 or later.
You have installed the following Python libraries: tkinter, PIL, numpy, opencv, and tkinterdnd2.
You can install the necessary libraries with pip:
    pip install pillow numpy tkinterdnd2 opencv-python

Install FFmpeg on Windows:
FFmpeg is required for handling video and audio encoding/decoding. Follow these steps to install FFmpeg on your Windows machine.

Step 1: Download FFmpeg
Go to the FFmpeg official download page.
Click on the "Windows" icon under "Get packages & executable files".
Choose the "Windows Builds" from the list, which will redirect you to a third-party site, typically gyan.dev.
On the gyan.dev page, scroll down to the "Release builds" section.
Download the latest "ffmpeg-release-full.7z" file.
Step 2: Extract the FFmpeg Download
Navigate to the location where you downloaded the ffmpeg-release-full.7z file.
Use an extraction tool like 7-Zip to extract the contents of the .7z file. Right-click on the file, choose "7-Zip" -> "Extract Here" or "Extract to ffmpeg-release-full".
Step 3: Move FFmpeg to a Permanent Location
After extraction, you will see a folder named something like ffmpeg-<version>-full.
Move this folder to a location where you want to keep FFmpeg, such as C:\ffmpeg.
Step 4: Add FFmpeg to the System Path
Open the Start menu, search for "Environment Variables" and select "Edit the system environment variables".
In the "System Properties" window, click on the "Environment Variables" button.
In the "Environment Variables" window, find the "Path" variable in the "System variables" section and select it. Click on "Edit".
In the "Edit Environment Variable" window, click on "New" and add the path to the bin directory of the FFmpeg folder you moved earlier, e.g., C:\ffmpeg\bin.
Click "OK" to close all windows.
Step 5: Verify FFmpeg Installation
Open Command Prompt by pressing Win + R, typing cmd, and hitting Enter.
Type ffmpeg and press Enter.
If the installation was successful, you should see the FFmpeg version and configuration details.
Running LSB Steganography
To run the LSB Steganography scripts, follow these steps:

Open a terminal in the cheng directory containing encoder_main.py and decoder_main.py.
To test the encode functionality, run the following command:
python encoder_main.py
To test the decode functionality, run the following command:
python decoder_main.py

The GUI will open. For encoding:
Select a cover file (an image or video file).
Select a payload file (a text file).
Select the number of least significant bits to use for the steganography.
Click "Encode" to hide the payload in the cover file. The steganographic file will be saved and displayed in the GUI.

For decoding:
Select a stego file (an image or video file with hidden data).
Select the number of least significant bits used for encoding.
Click "Decode" to extract the hidden data from the stego file.
Using the GUI
Select Cover File: Choose the image or video file you want to use to hide the message.
Select Payload File: Choose the text file containing the message you want to hide.
Number of LSBs: Select the number of least significant bits to use for the encoding.
Encode: Click to encode the message into the cover file.
Select Stego File: Choose the stego image or video file to decode the hidden message.
Decode: Click to extract the hidden message from the stego file.
